hello my name is violin GM and this
video is for all you black belters out
there those of you that have had
considerable experience playing the
violin I would like to give you some
techniques today of how to play scales
and double stops and start with thirds
when starting to practice thirds there's
two main challenges one is the shift
that involves going from from a third in
one position to a third in the next
position the next challenge or the
second challenge excuse me is to find
the correct hand frame when you have 1/3
or 2/3 in the same position so like like
that so let's start by by figuring out
some good exercises to really solidify
hand positions for thirds what I
recommend is to do is the following
start by playing the third C on the g
string and E on the D string like this
until that feels really nicely in tune
then let's take the second finger and
put it down on F alternating between E
and F making sure the C and the FF
fourth is really in tune
so do that a few times until you are
really able to land consistent
consistently on the perfect 4th then
let's do the same exercise but with the
fourth finger alternating between three
and four on the g string so you get a
major second between D and E
the next step is that I recommend
alternating then between for and between
two so we're going to take turns we're
going to start by putting the fourth
finger on then we're gonna put the
second finger on and we're gonna lift
fourth finger off and then we're going
to lift second finger off so we're going
to get intervals of 4/3 and seconds by
doing this exercise so just to repeat it
one more time we're gonna put fourth
finger down then second finger down then
lift fourth finger then lips second
finger like this
until that sounds really in tune and
then we're gonna try the opposite way
we're gonna put down second finger put
down fourth finger lip second finger
lift fourth finger like this
until that feels really solid then for
the development of facility independence
of the fingers we can also try that
twice as fast
starting with putting the fourth finger
down second finger down lifting for
lifting to an opposite
starting with putting down two
then we can simply take and do a trill
between two one three and two four and
then finally my personal favorite is to
play triplets with the fourth finger and
do 'pls with the second finger
and then opposite triplets with the
second finger in duple was a fourth
finger
after you can do that you will have a
very independent hand or very
independent fingers that will be able to
play thirds with great ease thank you so
much for watching for more videos and
more information about myself you can
visit me at violin GM comm there you'll
also have the opportunity to send me an
email with any questions you might have
with regards to the Third's or anything
else and I will do my best to answer you
as soon as possible thank you so much
for watching